- [Instructor] In our time together during this course,
we have covered a lot of ground.
You have learned the foundational principles
of spring integration from both a theoretical
and a hands-on perspective.
There is much more to explore.
If you are curious to learn more or you are in the place
of building a spring integration implementation yourself,
here are some additional topics you should be aware of.
Protocol-specific endpoints.
There is significant variety in the endpoint implementations
for each of the external system connectivity protocols.
We have looked at JDBC, Twitter, and HTTP together.
And the general principles we have learned
will get you started on the path.
However, a degree of research will be required
for you to fully implement a specific protocol connection
for your system and to understand all of the options
that are available to you.
Annotations.
While annotation-based configuration is a core
spring framework feature and not necessarily
an advanced topic, we did not cover it in this course.
All of the spring integration XML configuration options
that we used in our lessons have an annotation corollary.
Error handling is not a trivial undertaking
for asynchronous designs, which do dominate
the spring integration landscape.
This is because when processing is done asynchronously,
the concept of throwing an exception up the call stack
is not effective since there are multiple points
of processing and multiple call stacks in play.
Spring integration leverages channels to give plenty
of custom error handling options.
Channel interceptors.
In our discussion of channels,
we skipped this powerful feature.
Channel interceptors provide a way
to capture meaningful information about the messages
passing through the system in a lifecycle
type of event callback.
Endpoint roles allow you to group, start,
and stop endpoints by role.
This feature is useful in clustering and load balancing
types of situations.
If you have a need to gain performance metrics
on your messaging framework, the system
management feature allows you to capture runtime
integration metrics such as channel send rates
and error counts.
In the event you are building a highly reactive
event-based system, you will want to explore the points
of integration that spring integration provides
to the Java 9 Reactive Streams SPI, which is woven
into various parts of the spring integration framework.
Finally, an important overall principle
that I want to communicate is that when working
with spring integration in the real world,
you are likely to be rather close to the guts
of the technical architecture design.
It will be essential for you to understand
software architectural principles and how they intersect
with spring integration.
For that, I recommend delving into the "Enterprise
"Integration Patterns" publication
that we have referenced throughout this course.